After taking a year off, Ubisoft is getting ready to launch it's latest game into the immensely popular Assassin's Creed franchise. In a few weeks, players will get to live out their Viking fantasies in Assassin's Creed Valhalla, which takes place in 873 AD as Norwegian Vikings traveled and attempted to settle Anglo-Saxon England. With the fanbase more than ready to step into the shoes of Eivor, Ubisoft is using that excitement as a springboard for even more Assassin's Creed news.

Earlier today, Ubisoft and Netflix announced a partnership which sees the two companies teaming up to create new content based on the Assassin's Creed franchise. Most headlines highlighted the fact that this deal includes live-action content, something Ubisoft previously attempted with its 2016 film, Assassin's Creed. While the film had plenty of big names like Michael Fassbender, Jeremy Irons and Marion Cotillard, it didn't review well with critics and wasn't a big box office smash hit.

This deal gives Ubisoft another chance to reach an even bigger audience through the streaming giant. Better yet, the deal also includes multiple projects that utilizes other genres such as anime and animated content. Rumors of an Assassin's Creed Anime have been circulating for over three years now after Adi Shankar, producer on the Castlevania Netflix show, announced his involvement. Ubisoft opted to only confirm it was working with Shankar, but would not divulge the details at that time.

For now, the initial reveal Tweet and press release, Netflix is currently starting production on an Assassin's Creed live-action series. While the companies are currently looking for a showrunner to lead the series, Ubisoft's own Jason Altman and Danielle Kreinik, who are part of the Film & Television section of the company, are serving as Executive Producers.

This collaboration shouldn't surprise Assassin's Creed fans as Ubisoft has been announcing a number of partnerships with other companies regarding its upcoming game. In addition to graphic novels and manga, one of Ubisoft's most recent announcements is a partnership with the shoe company Reebok. The Capsule Collection features three sets of sneakers and a clothing line inspired by Assassin's Creed Valhalla. The gear launches on the Reebok store starting on November 7.