Wonder Woman 1984 and Diana’s glitzy return may have been curtailed in recent months, but there’s still plenty to get excited about. Honestly, a trip to the ‘80s – shoulder pads and all – is exactly what we need right now, the Patty Jenkins-directed DC sequel is set to deliver.

In our guide to Wonder Woman 1984 we’ve got the full story on everything from Steve Trevor’s unlikely return, a first look at Kristen Wiig’s Cheetah, every major trailer released so far, and even a chance to pore over Di’s golden suit.

Beyond that, there’s an exploration of Wonder Woman 1984’s uncertain future; namely, will it come out this year and is it coming to cinemas? For now, it’s still shaky ground but we didn’t need the Lasso of Truth to find out the current official position on when and how it’s set to release.

So, start working on your perm, stock up on hairspray, and brush up on your disco back catalogue – this is everything you need to know about Wonder Woman 1984.

The Wonder Woman 1984 release date has changed. Again. For now, it's December 25 (Christmas Day) in the US. It's not yet known when the Wonder Woman sequel will release in other regions that don't traditionally screen movies on Christmas Day, such as the UK.

Patty Jenkins has also responded to suggestions that the movie will go straight to streaming. The director said, "We are still 100% behind the theatrical experience for Wonder Woman 1984"

For Wonder Woman 1984, though, it's the latest in a long, long line of delays. Originally scheduled for December 1, 2019, it was pushed up to November 2019, and later delayed into the early summer window of June 5, 2020. From there, coronavirus concerns took hold and saw it retreat into August and, recently, October 2. Fingers crossed for Christmas? Let's hope so, though we certainly wouldn't be surprised to see it move into summer 2021.

First things first, watch the Wonder Woman 1984 trailer just above if you haven’t seen it already. We’re about to recap what’s in it, and why it could be important for Diana’s big sequel.

Done? Good. So, big picture: we’re in the 1980s and Steve Trevor is back. Maybe. The trailer definitely doesn’t shed too much light on how the WW1 soldier has been brought back from the dead after his demise in the original Wonder Woman. It might have something to do with the magnate Maxwell Lord, played by The Mandalorian himself, Pedro Pascal. During the trailer he makes reference to “everything you always wanted.” For Diana, that’s surely poor old Steve.

He’s seen – complete with bum bag – in a handful of trailer scenes, including his confusion at the art of the 1980s, even mistaking a plain trash can for a masterpiece. However, it appears to come a cost: Lord says he will take something in return, and Diana is later seen fending off several guards. Has the Amazonian turned to the side of evil?

Then there’s the small matter of Di’s new BFF, Kristen Wiig as The Cheetah. Yep, the marketing isn’t even attempting to hide that the woman Diana is speaking to (and quite friendly with) at the beginning of the Wonder Woman 1984 trailer will eventually betray her.

The trailer even ends with a shot that will tide us over until June: Diana in her golden suit, presumably for a final battle with Cheetah. Where did she get it from? Maybe it all ties into the Themyscira flashbacks dotted throughout the trailer, with Robin Wright’s Antiope also confirmed to return. 

The FanDome trailer, meanwhile, features Chris Pine wearing a fanny pack. What? We have to mention more? Well then. How about a first full look at Kristen Wiig's Cheetah? Plus some shots of the Wonder Woman villain going one on one with Diana in what is definitely not going to be the final act of the movie. Nope. No way. Nuh-uh.

On top of that, there's Pedro Pascal's Maxwell Lord scheming up a storm and a sprinkling of other set-pieces. October can't come soon enough. Watch it now!